#Chef- is a configuration management tool .
Configuration management tool - it is a method through which we automate
admin tasks and turns code into infrastructure.
Configuration management tool turns your code into infrastructure.
So your code will be repeatable,testable , versionable.
Chef is a pull based tool.
Pull based- Nodes check with the server Perodically and fetches the configuration
from it .
Chef is written in Ruby language.
Advantage of Chef:-
Complete automation
Improve performance
reduce cost
Components of Chef ( chef architecture)
Workstation - Workstations are personal computers or virtual servers where all
configuration code is created ,tested or changed. Workstation communicates with the
chef server using a knife.
Knife is a command line tool that uploads the cookbook to the server. Tool to
establish communication among workstation, server and node knife is a CLI tool that
runs on workstation.
Chef-server oR Server- The chef-server is a middle-man between workstation and
the nodes.
It stores cookbooks, roles, environments and other resources.
Node- apply the code. Nodes are the systems that require the configuration.
Node communicate with the chef-server using the chef-client.
Each node can have a different configuration required.Chef-client is installed on
every node.
Chef-client- to update the machine and take the code from server and transfer with
node.
Cookbook is like a code of recipe .A cookbook is a collection of resources (recipes).
Recipe is a file that contains a set of instructions (resources) to be executed.Configuration part:
Installation Command of chef
wget https://packages.chef.io/files/stable/chef-workstation/21.10.640/el/8/chef-
workstation-21.10.640-1.el8.x86_64.rpm
yum localinstall chef-workstation-21.10.640-1.el8.x86_64.rpm
chef -v
.yum install tree -y (install tree)
amazon-linux-extras install java-openjdk11 (install java) on node and workstation
cd cookbooks/
chef generate cookbook test-cookbook (create the cookbook)
cd test-cookbook/
chef generate recipe test-recipe (create recipe)
vi test-cookbook/recipes/test-recipe.rb (write the cookbook and recipe)
chef exec ruby -c test-cookbook/recipes/test-recipe.rb (check the code and syntax)
chef-client -zr "recipe[test-cookbook::test-recipe]" (run the cookbook and recipe)
knife ssl check (check connection btw workstation and chef-server)
knife upload cookbook priya_cookbook(upload cookbook)
knife cookbook list (see the list of uploaded cookbook)
knife node show nod1(see the node details)
knife bootstrap 3.140.240.119 --ssh-user ec2-user --sudo -i ohiokey1.pem -N
node1(connect to node)
knife node run_list set node1 "recipe[priya-cookbook::test-recipe](attach the recipe to
node)
chef-client
Jenkins installation for amazon linux
yum update -y
sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo
https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.reposudo rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
sudo amazon-linux-extras install java-openjdk11
java --version
yum install jenkins
jenkins --version
systemctl enable jenkins
systemctl start jenkins
systemctl status jenkins
shell script- A shell script is a text file that contains a sequence of commands for a
UNIX-based operating system. Shell Scripts are written using text editors
Shell scripting is an important part of process automation in Linux
why we used shell?
Shell helps in doing work which is repetitive in nature. When executing a bunch of
commands, often, shells can take all these commands directly from a stored file and
execute it.instead of writing them again every time.
